project_template_django/documentation/for-developers/how-to-develop.md, before:

# How to start developing

> Zero to productive..


1. Install pyenv & project's python

    Install pyenv for [windows](https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win/blob/master/docs/installation.md) or [linux/mac](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation)
    Ensure it's on PATH.

        pyenv install <latest>
        pyenv global <latest>


2. Install poetry

        python -m pip install pipx
        python -m pipx install poetry
        # will add %USERPROFILE%\.local\bin to PATH - be careful, you might want to control your PATH yourself though
        python -m pipx ensurepath  


3. Install projects' python

        # <version>: see pyproject.toml[tool.poetry.dependencies.python]
        pyenv install <version>
        pyenv local <version>  # sets .python-version


4. Install project dependencies

        poetry config virtualenvs.path <global path to your venvs>  # optional
        poetry install  # will create the venv


5. Setup the project for development

        poetry run python commands.py setup
        poetry run python manage.py migrate


6. Install pre-commit hooks

        poetry run pre-commit install


7. Run the devserver

        poetry run python manage.py runserver

Commit message:

How to start developing .. adds tests

project_template_django/documentation/for-developers/how-to-develop.md, after:

# How to start developing

> Zero to productive..


1. Install pyenv & project's python

    Install pyenv for [windows](https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win/blob/master/docs/installation.md) or [linux/mac](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation)
    Ensure it's on PATH.

        pyenv install <latest>
        pyenv global <latest>


2. Install poetry

        python -m pip install pipx
        python -m pipx install poetry
        # will add %USERPROFILE%\.local\bin to PATH - be careful, you might want to control your PATH yourself though
        python -m pipx ensurepath  


3. Install projects' python

        # <version>: see pyproject.toml[tool.poetry.dependencies.python]
        pyenv install <version>
        pyenv local <version>  # sets .python-version


4. Install project dependencies

        poetry env use python  # will create the venv and use your current local python
        poetry config virtualenvs.path <global path to your venvs>  # optional
        poetry install  # will install the dependencies to the venv


5. Setup the project for development

        poetry run python commands.py setup
        poetry run python manage.py migrate


6. Install pre-commit hooks

        poetry run pre-commit install  # repeat everytime you re-create the venv


7. Run the devserver

        poetry run python manage.py runserver


8. Run the tests
        
        poetry run pytest
